[daggy-u][dbt] Update dbt course to use DbtProject (#23098)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/dagster-university/pages/dagster-dbt/lesson-3/3-representing-the-dbt-project-in-dagster.md

---
title: 'Lesson 3: Representing the dbt project in Dagster'
module: 'dagster_dbt'
lesson: '3'
---

# Representing the dbt project in Dagster

As you’ll frequently point your Dagster code to the `target/manifest.json` file and your dbt project in this course, it’ll be helpful to keep a reusable representation of the dbt project. This can be easily done using the `DbtProject` class.

> Create a new file in the `assets` directory called `dbt.py`. Open that file and add the following import at the top:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `assets` directory, create a new `dbt.py` file and add the following imports:
```

Reviewer: This is what I see now: 

> In the `dagster_university` directory, create a new `project.py` file and add the following imports:

But later on in the lesson, `dbt.py` is still used (ex: line 31).

```python
from pathlib import Path

from dagster_dbt import DbtProject
```

> The `Path` class from the `pathlib` standard library will help us create an accurate pointer to where our dbt project is. The `DbtProject` class is imported from the `dagster_dbt` package that we installed earlier. After the import, add the following code: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Path` class from the `pathlib` standard library will help us create an accurate pointer to where our dbt project is. The `DbtProject` class is imported from the `dagster_dbt` package that we installed earlier.

After the imports, add the following code: 
```

```python
dbt_project = DbtProject(

>   project_dir=Path(__file__).joinpath("..", "..", "..", "analytics").resolve(),

Reviewer 2: I know we did this in the previous lesson as well, but I'm not a fan of repeating `..` relative paths.

Would it be more intuitive if we used dagster home, or `DagsterInstance.get().root_directory()`? This can merge before this change, but wanted to bring it up.

Author: I understand your point, but I think we should avoid this for two main reasons:
- it is common to see a dbt project outside the Dagster project directory - we would need to resolve the path using `DagsterInstance.get().root_directory()` and more `..` to indicate the dbt project location.
- the current scaffold template uses `..` relative paths. If we want to change that in Dagster University, we should start by the scaffold.

)
```

This code creates a representation of the dbt project called `dbt_project`. The code defining the location of the project directory might look a little complicated, so let’s break it down:

> - It uses the location of the `dbt.py` file (via `__file__`) as a point of reference for finding the dbt project

Reviewer: Nit - what does `it` in `It uses the location of...` refer to here? The code? Something specifically in the code?

Author: Rephrased in [54fd52f](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/pull/23098/commits/54fd52f9d9ea4631d085df33a7dccb2eb41d47d6) to `The location of ... is used as a point ...`
